There are several tyes of media
that many of us come across on a
daily basis.
These include traditional media
like newspapers, magazines,
books, TV and radio, but also
relatively newer forms of media
like e-mail, web articles,
social media posts, and a lot
more.
We're constantly being inundated
by media that wants our
attention.
It's easy to become overwhelmed
by the flow of information if we
don't develo the skills to
navigate our way through the
ocean of information that
surrounds us every day and learn
to evaluate information with a
critical eye.
Each year comanies send large
sums of money on Internet
advertising to the point where
the line between information an
advertisements becomes blurred.
Other media can be filled with
the attitudes and oinions of
others, while other forms of
media hide their message under
the surface of what we see and
hear.
O It's important to develop
media literacy in order to avoid
just assively accepting all
messages and instead learn to
think carefully and critically
about the media we consume.
Here are five basic questions
you can ask when you encounter
new information and want to
determine its accuracy and
reliability.
Question one Who created the
message.
Knowing who created the message
may give you some insight in
their purposes for doing so.
Was it to sell you something to
promote something?
Or was it to genuinely share
information?
It's difficult to have a
completely unbiased perspective,
but it's important to determine
if the bias outweighs or
influences the information.
And asking who created the
message can help give you the
distance to see the information
being resented more clearly.
Question two What techniques are
being used to cature your
attention?
Is information being resented in
a colorful video with Hay Music?
Is it being delivered in ominous
tones?
With sensationalist hrasing, the
way the message is being
presented can have a big
influence on how you erceive
that information.
Question 3 How might different
people interpret this message?
We all consume information a
little differently, and it's
important to step outside our
own perspective to explore
multiple viewpoints.
Some information you come across
may not take into account the
perspective and experience of
others.
Question four is what's being
left out of the message?
What oints of view, lifestyles
or values are being expressed in
or alternately left out of the
message?
When making a message, the
author makes choices about what
to keep in an what to leave out,
and these choices can reflect
the author's values and
attitudes.
Are certain perspectives being
deliberately left out of the
message to influence your
opinion?
And question 5.
Why is this message being sent?
The purpose of this question is
to examine the motivation of
sending the message in the first
lace.
It goes beyond the idea that
media is just there to entertain
and inform, and asks who
benefits from this message.
These five questions are not the
only questions you can and
should ask when evaluating
media, but they can rovide the
necessary foundation to start
thinking critically about the
media we engage with every day.